---
layout: post
title: Panda
oneliner: A web framework and application that tracks student scores, projects, and certifications.
type: project
categories:
  - web
projecturl: https://panda.johnnytatlock.com
image:
  - src: /images/icons/panda.png
  - alt: A panda cub.
tags:
  - PHP
  - jQuery
  - MySQL
---

*Note: The link for this project is a demo page, where you are
automatically logged in as me.*

PANDA is actually two components, a web framework for creating pages
with different functionality easily and extensibly, and extra code that
is only meant to be used internally at [ITA](https://ita.wisc.edu) (note:
I have nothing to do with the public site).

I envision PANDA as being similar to Ruby on Rails, in the sense that
RoR was extracted from [Basecamp](https://www.basecamphq.com/). I
definitely don’t plan on this being as popular, or having as great an
effect on the web as RoR! But the idea is similar.

The genesis of PANDA was a need for an easily maintainable, extensible
system for managing test scores, projects, and the certifications that
could be earned by a student. There was also a great impetus for me, as
it was (and is) a great learning experience and challenge.

PANDA works very similar to [DokuWiki](https://www.dokuwiki.org), in that
everything is routed through a central script, index.php. Each page in
PANDA is actually a separate PHP class file, which upon instantiation
runs whatever functions are needed specific to that page. There is also
a separate JavaScript file and CSS file, to further organize.

PANDA also has permissions per page, namespace, and user groups,
allowing for pretty cool control over where users are allowed to go.

One of the best features of PANDA is the HTML helper functions. As each
page of PANDA is a separate class, it’s very tedious to keep escaping
HTML, or drop out of PHP. In my opinion, it can make for very messy
code. So PANDA lets you make a table row like this (the row is holding
scores):

{% highlight php %}
echo row(2);
	echo cell_h(3, "Flash",	array('class' => 'topictitle'));
	echo cell(3, 90,	array('class' => 'btw score'));
	echo cell(3, 78.87,	array('class' => 'permit score'));
	echo cell(3, 80, 	array('class' => 'rt score'));
	echo cell(3, 248.87,	array('class' => 'total score'));
echo row_close(2);
{% endhighlight %}

The array argument at the end allows for any html attribute to be set to
a value. Here’s another example with a table cell containing a text
input area:

{% highlight php %}
echo cell(3,
    input(4, 'text', 'nameIdOfInput', null, array(
	'maxlength' => '10',
	'size' => '10',
	'value' => 'some value',
	'class' => 'input class'), true),
    array('class' => 'cell class'));
{% endhighlight %}

The boolean argument determines if the input is enabled or disabled.
While it may look confusing at first, it quickly makes for more
organized code.
