---
layout: post
title: Chess, That Most Curious of Pastimes...
categories:
  - in progress
type: project
projecturl: https://kirbysayshi.github.com/in-progress/2009/07/01/chess.html
oneliner: A stab at an online multiplayer game, based on chess. Throw in RPG elements, steampunk aesthetics, and a socket server, and you've almost got a game!
image:
  - src: /images/icons/chess.png
  - alt: The stand-in icon for the BLACK BISHOP!
tags:
  - AS3
  - GFSServer
  - Steampunk
  - Flex
  - Flash
---

The assignment from my independent study was to create some sort of
Flash-based *something* that had a strong visual aspect. I decided it
was time to create an MMORPG single-handedly, in one semester… I ended
up using Flex.

The premise was that a player would create a “team” of chess pieces.
Each piece would have a name. Also, the player would be given some
allocation points, which could be assigned to a chess piece, increasing
its battle statistics (attack, speed, defense, health). A player would
challenge another player, and the two would commence with a standard
game of chess.

*But not quite…*

The difference was when two pieces on the board would meet. Rather than
the attacking piece automatically capturing the opposing piece, there
was a battle. Thus, the opposing piece could actually defeat the
attacking piece, and remain on the board! The battle consisted of
pressing a key in sync with a rising gauge on screen. If you hit the key
at the right point, you would get an attack bonus. If you pressed the
same key when you were being attacked, you would get a defense bonus.
Each piece had different types of gauges, some filling faster, slower,
or even erratically.

I used a Java-based socket server called
[GFSServer](https://code.google.com/p/gfs-server/) for the network
communication. I could have gone with something like
[Red5](https://code.google.com/p/red5/) or
[SmartFoxServer](https://www.smartfoxserver.com/) (which I did test out),
but they seemed much too complicated for what I wanted to do.

While I had to place the project on hold at the completion of my
independent study, I did get a demo working, complete with multiplayer,
chat, chess movement, and player customization. The only component that
remains incomplete is the battle system. As the socket server is
required, and I don’t have the resources to keep a server running, the
demo is unable to be played. At some point in the future I may put the
code up on Google Code or Github.
