---
layout: post
title: JSConf 2011 Day 1
oneliner: Talks of the epic awesome
type: post
categories:
  - JavaScript
image:
  - src:
  - alt:
tags:
  - JavaScript
---

h4. Bytes and Blobs

XHR2 will eventually have a blob datatype, which will allow JS-controlled manipulation of binary data. This combined with the Drag-Drop API is really exciting. Blob URLs will also be possible (URL.createObjectURL), allowing a user to choose a file using a standard input tag, convert the input to a URL, and assign it to an image tag. WITHOUT canvas!

FileReader object allows for reading in binary data from the filesystem.

Typed arrays have been around for a while because of WebGL, but UInt/Float 8, 16, 32, 64 bits are available as well. They use native endianness of your platform. This could be a problem in network transport. WebGL needed native endianness for speed.

webkitRequestFileSystem(): allow JS to talk to the local filesystem. Have to request a specific amount of memory. This gives you a file system. Then you request a file entry, followed by an actual file.

Soon we'll be able to assign blobs to localStorage and sessionStorage.

h4. Conference WiFi Redux

WiFi at a conference is hard. You have to bring in all of your own materials. Use node to route!

h4. Going Steady with the Chrome Developer Tools

CSS and Script edits are now revisioned. Save directly from the dev tools to the file system for CSS!

    copy(something) // output of something is copied to clipboard
    dir() // log properties, not DOM element
    inspect() // highlight DOM element in inspect tab

Press ? to get a hint panel.
CMD + L jumps to a specific line.
Live edit JS
Pretty print minified JS with a right click!

h4. Batman.js

Goals:
* Fast: faster than ryan changes the node apis
* ruby-like: shape is important
* maximize developer happiness
* maximize designer happiness: let them use jquery
* convention over configuration: where do you put your stuff? path of least resistance
* powerful bindings
* no templates??
* be a framework, not a library

Batman: all of the above

h4. Online Code Editing

ACE (Ajax.org Code Editor) is awesome. Super easy to get going, and is easily extensible.

h4. Code Quality Tools

Three laws of code quality:

#
#
#

h4. Everything is permitted: extending built-ins

Shouldn't treat coding practices like morality. Be precise in evangelism and tutorials.

Wear shorts more often.

Code has social customs. Talk more about what's polite or not, rather than right vs wrong.

Who owns the built-ins? We all do. They are shared. Mine to use, and there is trust to not screw them up for other people. Social customs are a proven way to manage shared property. Java is like Singapore. JavaScript is more like Ruby, which has evolved through the influence of community norms.

Let's all use the Bind polyfill. Let's all hope for refine/classboxes.